# portfolio

**I am the one!**

_Aha_, it all started on this fortunate ride on the Madaraka Express; that generational-old smoking train that finally snaked its way through a smog ladden sunrise into Nairobi. It's seats were rusty and clumsy like all the grandfathers it ferried to work in tea farms. A bunch of lazy hyenas limped off the railway into thickets heavy with last night's dew; they laughed. Maybe at themselves or because they wouldn't stand the smell of young dreamers on board the Express. 

Three days of misery perched like a bat against a window on this iron horse out of my village, and four years later studying the art of story telling with a bunch of witty Professors, I knew that my fate was boldy sealed. I would be sitting patiently infront of a blinking screen, like an old buffalo chewing cud while some hungry mosquitoes chewed at my ass. Accidentally, as my village manners were being shaped by city jeans and a T-shirt, I won myself the best-student award by hungrily squeezing avocado juice out of Statistics and Computer Science books. Like a mouse trap during a famine, I caught those top-grades in hiralious ambushes; late night book-worming and some cheese in my dreams!   

Meanwhile, as i was being fried in the art of numbers, and enjoying the thrill of computing, the good Lord was busy making some beautiful rocks. To humor me, he buried them deep in dirt, and legend has it that he allowed mountain gorillas to be sentinels. 

Look at me now...oh Lord, I mine those very precious rocks for something called data; a tasty spice that serious people use to brew stories mixed with coffee and success. As for the myth of gorillas, I have never seen 'em. Maybe I am a data gorilla myself...GRRRRRRR!  

Back at my village, when Blackie, our one-horned cow moos at sunset, my mother thinks that I am a __data specialist__, an agile software developer or a __visual storyteller__. She refuses to accept that I am also a sherperd, of cows and goats. I go by many names depending on which data mountain I am invading. For the last 10+ years, I have chopped up interesting data over innovative design boards, modelled crazy parts in furnices lit by some bad-ass witchy algorithms, and built solid evidence-based data workflows in a rogue language called R, with his equally venom spitting sister Python. Speaking of Pythons - which is not a hissing snake creature - when my heavenly star, Cancer the crab, is out and running through the seaside, I teach my data models stuff about __predictive thinking__ in machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI). Most times however, I join the crabs and ride a verocious white cancer-branded baby horse called __"Sahmiye"__, with a Twitter handle __@inNz10__ hanging over my ass on the Internet. It's fun; I sniff, scout, discover and visualize critical insights, hidden patterns, and valuable [sentiments](sahmiye-twitter.html) in text-based data using the holy grail in statistical analysis and deep learning techniques. 

Let's say...like my relatives the sea Crabs, and mountain gorillas, I love digging magical holes using a dagger made in steel from R and Python, just to sniff out fresh data in the sand of time! 
